Dear Kechuan,

I am sorry to know that you had a sleepless night.
Your health is not as good as before and your emotional
state is under stress. Our love gives you most of the
frustration. You should really take care and control 
yourself, although I know it is not an easy thing to do.

The following words might be cold. It doesn't mean
I love you less. I just want to have a clear understanding
about the situation we are in and how we got into
the frustrations and the inconsistent emotional
cycles. It is important for both of us.

Since both of us are scientists, let us do some cold  
objective analysis. We are always seeking for truth   
and facts and don't want to live in illusion. We can  
accept the truth no matter how unpleasant it might be.
We have to sort something out, otherwise we will not
be happy.

The first thing I want to say is that if you can get
an offer either from UCSF or Berkeley, by all means 
take it. It is good for your career and my arms are
always open to you. I am a selfish person, but not
that selfish as giving happiness to the woman whom 
I love and who loves me. I am not an animal, not yet.

You know it is not a clear-cut issue and you always
want to get a clear and definite answer. I know a
clear answer is important since you are going to act
on it. But the reality is I can not give you a full
green light since I always have a MJ in my mind; I
cannot give you a full red light since I love you
as well. You know I am in a more awkward position 
than you are; you only love me (or love me the most) 
and you can concentrate your effort on that and you 
can decide things yourself; I am in ambiguity and
I have to deal with things that are not compatible.   

We have to admit the fact that the very nature of     
love and marriage is exclusive to outsiders. When
two lovers are together, it is a full and complete
world, any outside disturbance and intrusion are 
intolerable and unbearable, at least in theory. And as 
two lovers get involved deeply and live with each other 
for a long time, that becomes a default state and it
requires the force of a sage or a divine to separate
them. It is so painful, both physically and spiritually, 
to separate lovers deep in love.

This is I am afraid of the most: once we are together
at SF for two years and it is time to separate, neither
of us can stand it. I know you are an exceptional girl
and you have transcended many things in the past year
and you want to be a spirit, weightless, a pure spirit.
But you are also a flesh and blood human being, young
and beautiful, eager to be loved and touched. Can you
simply drive away after two years, indifferent?

Do you know what bothered me the most when I was with
you? It was MJ's weeping and helplessness when she found
out I might be dishonest to her. This feeling has never
left me. Her eyes are full of doubts now are always looking
for confirmation from me. She seemed to have matureed
suddenly over a night.

I know we love each other no matter what. But it isn't a
pure and theoretical love, we do have to live a down-to-the-earth
life. When you make decisions about your future, keep my 
concerns and doubts mentioned above in mind so that you won't 
get illusion and inconsistency. 

We love each other and we are soulmates. We don't want to
hide from each other. I have poured out what's been in my
mind. You don't have to read my mind by yourself, I've
exposed it for you. Forgive me if there's any confusion
or poor organization or repetition in what I have written above.

Love is not easy.

Wenjun
