			Plans for x-ray experiments on the gel phase
			of long chain lengths and the ripple phase

1. Gel phase of long chain lengths:

	Purpose: Finish the long chain gel phase study. The lack of quality
		 data for C16 and C18 at below room temperatures is impeding
		 this project. C20 is a bridge between shorter chain lengths
		 like C16 and C18, and longer chain lengths like C22 and C24.

	Samples: C16, C18, C20, fully hydrated, powder samples.

	Data: Low and wide angle scattering data as a function of temperature.

2. Ripple phase study

	Purpose: To explain the jump (or anomalous increase) in D-spacings 
		 when lecithins go from gel phase to ripple phase. Test two 
		 hypotheses: 

		Hypothesis 1. The ripple phase structure has more water 
		molecules in between bilayers than in the gel phase, which
		gives rise to the increased D-spacing.

			Test: Calculate Nw for both the gel and the ripple
			phase from electron density profile constructions
			and volumetric measurements.

			If Nw (ripple) < or = Nw (gel), then Hypothesis 1
			is false.

			Supporting evidence disproving Hypothesis 1: Janiak
			el at. (1979) reported that for DMPC, the D-spacings
			of both gel and ripple phases saturate at 30% water
			by weight. The means Nw (ripple) = Nw (gel).
 
		Hypothesis 2. The nonzero slopes of the ripples induce an
		larger apparent D-spacing, which accounts for the jump in
		the D-spacing.  

			Test: By measuring the low angle scattering intensities 
			of the ripple peaks and fitting my model to them, the 
			structure of the ripples could be obtained, including
			the slope and the local D-spacing. Then the task is
			to see if

				Apparent D-spacing = Local D-spacing/cos(slope)

			holds.

	Samples: DMPC + PVP water solution (0%, 10%, 20%, 30% and 40% PVP).

		 Reasons to choose DMPC: 
			1). Could work around the room temperature, where
			temperatures could be well controlled.
			2). A lot of ripple phase works have been done on
			DMPC. Janiak79 (D-spacing as a function of hydration;
			intensity measurements and modeling); Wack89 (Best
			intensity measurement in the literature); Katsaras95(
			Best oriented scattering pattern); Sirota88 (Phase
			digram and direct observation of ripple peaks using 
			oriented sample); Zasadzinski87&88(Freeze fracture EM
			and STM); Hata90,93&94( T-dependence of ripple
			structure of pure DMPC and DMPC/cholesterol)i; 
			Simon&McIntosh91 (Cholesterol concentration dependence
			of DMPC gel and ripple phase).
			
	Data: Good low angle data at the temperature range covering 
	      the gel and the ripple phases.
