Dear Dr. Zasadzinski,

I am a student of Dr. Nagle and the first author of the paper
on the ripple phase we had sent you. Thanks for the preprints 
you have sent us and we are glad to know that your 
STM/freeze-fracture result agrees with our x-ray result. 

As it was I who "dragged" Dr. Nagle into the ripple phase study, 
Dr. Nagle asked me to respond to your email. My reply has been 
postponed by our attendance of the Biophysical Society Annual 
Meeting in February (Where I had won the Student Research Achievement
Award for this ripple phase work) and by the fact that I am 
finishing my Ph.D. study here and have to complete my thesis 
before certain date. I hope you are not offended by my late 
response.

We agree with you that previous work, both theoretical and 
experimental, is insufficient and sometimes ambiguous. We
hope that with your work and ours combined, the confusion 
in ripple phase studies will be eliminated. For example, since
your STM/freeze-fracture result now shows no secondary ripples,
and since our model can adequately fit all the x-ray diffraction
peaks with the primary ripple structure, perhaps the complications
of secondary double-period ripples can be forgotten.

STM is good at imaging the topography of the top bilayer, but
can not get the cross section view along the normal direction
of the bilayers; certainly this is rather due to the limitation 
of the freeze-fracture method than due to STM itself. In contrast,
as we have shown in our paper, x-ray diffraction, if properly
analyzed, does give the cross-section view of the rippled
bilayers, namely, the accurate ripple profile, the packing of 
the two opposing monolayers within a bilayer, and the alignment 
of adjacent bilayers. So, we disagree a little with your statement
'Unfortunately, the ripple shape cannot be determined by X-ray
diffraction or ...' in the first paragraph on page 3 of your preprint
to PRE's Rapid Communications. Certainly, we are aware that when
you made that statement, no satisfactory x-ray structural analysis
on the ripple phase had been carried out. Now we think we have a 
satisfactory one.

I used to work with STM back in China before I came to the States
in 1990. I even did a master's thesis on using STM to image biomolecules
like amino acids and some liquid crystal molecules. I am still
fascinated by STM because of its direct and powerful imaging method.
Now, after I finish my Ph.D. study, I will go to Berkeley to
do a postdoc. Since Santa Barbara can be reached by a few hours'
delightful driving from Berkeley, I am looking forward to an 
opportunity of visiting your lab. 

Thanks again for the preprints.

Best regards,

Wenjun Sun
