To Dr. Daniel C. Wack

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dear Dan,

	My student, Wenjun Sun, has gotten interested in the ripple
phase.  Of course, he has studied your outstanding papers, PRL 61, 
1210 (1988) and PRA 40, 2712 (1989) (and your thesis, which you kindly 
sent me), as well as the papers of others.

	Wenjun has persuaded me that he can obtain additional 
information, such as amplitude of rippling and degree of asymmetry, 
from your data.  Before he goes any further, however, I thought it 
important to check with you and Watt and I have called Watt, who 
says that you have not written any additional papers on the ripple 
phase.  We would also like to know if anyone else has used your data 
to obtain additional information about the rippling?

	I will turn this letter over to Wenjun who can describe
better what he is doing and what additional data he might like to
have, if you still have it.  If there are additional data and if 
Wenjun can make something convincing of it, we would, of course,
invite you to co-author any paper.

	Thanks for your consideration.

					John Nagle

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi, Dan

My name is Wenjun Sun and I am one of Dr. Nagle's students. I have been 
interested in the ripple phase of lecithin bilayer system and have learned
a lot from your papers.

The lattice parameters of the ripple phase, namely the ripple repeat, the 
inter-bilayer d-spacing and the oblique angle, have been well determined by
you and other workers. But the ripple amplitude and the degree of assymetry
of the ripple profile are still subject to many ambiguities. It has 
been argued that the obliquity of the ripple unit cell implies the asymmetry
of the ripple profile, but how much is the asymmetry, namely the slopes and the
lengths of the two sides of the ripple, has has never been answered
satisfactorily. 

The information about the ripple amplitude and the degree of asymmetry is
contained in the scattering density distribution of different peaks from
x-ray measurements, as you well know. There are two approaches to extract
these information from x-ray density data: 1). Fourier reconstruction of the
electron density distribution. Typically there are about twenty peaks. Finding
the right combination of phases ( out of 2^20 possibilities) is extremely
difficult. 2). Modeling. The model should contain the ripple profile and the
trans-bilayer electron density distribution. Janiak et al. made such an
attempt. But their data were not good enough, and they used a symmetrical
ripple shape. Their fitting result gave an incorrect scattering intensity
distribution in the q-space, which could be contradicted by your work and
other oriented sample works. Although their attempt is not very sucessful
from my point of view, modeling still seems the only sensible way to go.

Recently, I proposed a model. It consists of an asymmetric ripple profile,
with the ripple amplitude and the slopes as parameters, and a typical
trans-bilayer electron distribution with the bilayer thickness as one
of the parameters. I fitted my model to your intensity data reported in your
PRA paper and achieved very good, both qualitative and quantitative,
agreements. I showed my preliminary results to Dr. Nagle and other members
of our group. They were impressed and convinced that I was on the right 
track. My plan is to get the chain length and hydration dependences of the
ripple amplitude and the degree of asymmetry. But this requires many high 
quality x-ray works like the one you had done back in your Ph.D time. Also
there might be a possibility that you already have all the intensity
data for different chain length and hydration levels. If so, I would be very
glad to have them and analyze them using my model. I am sure it will turn
out to be a (or few) nice paper(s). And as Dr. Nagle mentioned in his
introduction letter, you are welcome to be a co-author.

It would be highly rare that one can still remember his Ph.D work after
so many years :) I hope this email would remind you of all those "dark
hours in CHESS" :) I have gone to CHESS three times, so I fully understand
what you meant. Even if you do have the intensity data, retrieving them
will not be an easy job. 

We are sincerely looking forward to hearing from you.

Best regards.

Wenjun

Wenjun Sun
Department of physics
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
phone: (412)268-2730
FAX: (412)681-0648
email: ws22@andrew.cmu.edu
